[DX-403] Synchroniser feature with MDCB - Awaiting Terminology Confirmation (#2750)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/planning-for-production/ensure-high-availability/synchroniser.md

---
date: 2023-06-21T11:02:59Z
title: Synchroniser feature with MDCB
tags: ["High Availability", "Synchroniser"]
description: "Synchroniser feature with MDCB"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "Ensure High Availability"
weight: 7
---

## Overview

> In order to process API requests successfully the worker Gateways need resources such as API keys, certificates, and OAuth clients.

Author: @sredxny could you help to check this suggestion?

> In order to process API requests successfully the worker Gateways need resources such as API keys, certificates, and OAuth clients.

Reviewer: nope, we do not have an image for that. We might need help from the UI team to create it

> In order to process API requests successfully the worker Gateways need resources such as API keys, certificates, and OAuth clients.

Author: @dcs3spp Shall we handle this as separate PR?

Tyk Gateway v4.1 introduces an improved synchroniser functionality within Multi Data Centre Bridge (MDCB) v2.0.3. Prior to this release, the API keys, certificates and OAuth clients required by worker Gateways were synchronised from the controller Gateway on-demand. With Gateway v4.1 and MDCB v2.0.3 we introduce proactive synchronisation of these resources to the worker Gateways when they start up.

> This change improves resilience in case the MDCB link or controller Gateway is unavailable, because the worker Gateways can continue to operate independently using the resources stored locally. There is also a performance improvement, with the worker Gateways not having to retrieve resources from the controller Gateway when an API is first called.

Author: @sredxny please confirm about the startup time

> This change improves resilience in case the MDCB link or controller Gateway is unavailable, because the worker Gateways can continue to operate independently using the resources stored locally. There is also a performance improvement, with the worker Gateways not having to retrieve resources from the controller Gateway when an API is first called.

Reviewer: no, the startup time is not affected. As the synchroniser works as a parallel job that start to run and MDCB/gateways are available to receive and process requests in the meantime

Changes to keys, certificates and OAuth clients are still synchronised to the worker Gateways from the controller when there are changes and following any failure in the MDCB link.

### How does worker Gateways get resources from MDCB control plane

**Without Synchroniser**

> If Synchroniser is disabled, the resources were pulled by the worker Gateways on-demand and not in advance. It means that first it checks if the resource lives in the local redis and if it doesn’t exist then it tries to pull it from the management layer to store it locally.

Author: ```suggestion
If [Synchroniser]({{< ref "/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options#sync_worker_configenabled" >}}) is disabled, the resources were pulled by the worker Gateways on-demand and not in advance. It means that first it checks if the resource lives in the local redis and if it doesn’t exist then it tries to pull it from the management layer to store it locally.
```

> Every time that a key is updated or removed the management layer emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Author: @sredxny could you confirm?

> Every time that a key is updated or removed the management layer emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Reviewer: ummm interesting, I think this is more like what terminology we want to use. Usually publish/subscribe is used for real-time messaging systems. In this case we aim to do something similar so I agree, but again, in the end it depends on which terminology we agree to use

> Every time that a key is updated or removed the management layer emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Author: @dcs3spp @sredxny To me, pull/emits denotes more a direct interaction between the management layer and cluster gateways, while pub/sub may mean there is an intermediary layer handling the topics that get published/subscribed. WDYT? Which one is a more accurate description?

> Every time that a key is updated or removed the management layer emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Author: status update: waiting for diagram updates from designer

> Every time that a key is updated or removed the management layer emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Reviewer 2: Ok, if the architecture is direct interaction (like RPC?) between management layer and cluster gateways then yep pull/emits make more sense

> Every time that a key is updated or removed the management layer emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Author: The gif has been updated with "data plane" and "control plane"

Considerations:
- In a situation where MDCB or the management redis is down or having issues then the worker gateway would be affected as well, which is not desired.

> {{< img src="/img/mdcb/synchroniser-after.gif" alt="Without Synchroniser" width="1000" >}}

Author: updated

**With Synchroniser**

> If Synchroniser is enabled, API keys, certificates and OAuth clients are synchronised and stored in the local Redis server in advance, and since dashboard v4.1.0 a signal is emitted when when one of those resources is created, modified or deleted, it allows the worker DCs to respond accordingly, the transmitted information is: type of resource, action (create, update, delete), if hashed (in the case of keys), and resource Id so the changes are applied.

Author: ```suggestion
If [Synchroniser]({{< ref "/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options#sync_worker_configenabled" >}}) is enabled, API keys, certificates and OAuth clients are synchronised and stored in the local Redis server in advance, and since dashboard v4.1.0 a signal is emitted when when one of those resources is created, modified or deleted, it allows the worker DCs to respond accordingly, the transmitted information is: type of resource, action (create, update, delete), if hashed (in the case of keys), and resource Id so the changes are applied.
```

Considerations: 
- Local Redis sizing: if you have a lot of keys / resources to be synchronised, please review sizing of the local redis
- Data residency: Groups will be ignored when synchronizing- all keys (and oauth clients etc) will be propagated to all Redis instances, this might matter for customers who have a single control plane but multiple clusters of worker Gateways connected. All Redises will get All the keys. This has implications if you have data residency requirements.

{{< img src="/img/mdcb/synchroniser-after.gif" alt="With Synchroniser" width="1000" >}}

### Configuring the Synchroniser for Tyk Self Managed

{{< note success >}}**Note**

Synchroniser feature is disabled by default. To enable it, please configure both the worker Gateways and MDCB control plane accordingly.
{{< /note >}}

**Worker Gateway configuration**

First, configure the worker Gateway to enable synchroniser:

> `"slave_options":{ "synchroniser_enabled":true }`

Author: I think we cannot update the config option name due to backward compatibility reason

Please see [Gateway configuration options](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#slave_optionssynchroniser_enabled) for reference

Also, if you are running a cluster of Gateways, you must have a GroupID set in order for the Synchronizer to work properly, otherwise keys will not propagate.

`"slave_options":{ "group_id": "FOOBAR" }`

FOOBAR must be unique per-cluster.

Please see [Gateway configuration options](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#slave_optionsgroup_id) for reference

**MDCB Control Plane configuration**

Then, configure MDCB Control Plane. The most simple configuration to enable this feature via MDCB config file looks like:

`"sync_worker_config":{ "enabled":true }`

In order to configure how often the worker gateways read the signals from MDCB you can use the configuration option in `key_space_sync_interval` which is the interval (in seconds) that they will take to check if there’re any changes, it defaults to 10 seconds.

> All the authentication keys created in the management layer are replicated exactly the same to the worker DCs no matter which authentication method is being used: JWT, custom keys, Auth tokens, open ID, mTLS and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
All the authentication keys created in the management layer are replicated exactly the same to the data planes no matter which authentication method is being used: JWT, custom keys, Auth tokens, open ID, mTLS etc.
```

Please see [MDCB configuration options](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options/#sync_worker_config) for reference

If API keys were used and hash key is disabled, please also set these additional configurations on following components:

- MDCB:

`"sync_worker_config":{ "enabled":true, "hash_keys": false }, "hash_keys": false` 

- Dashboard:

`"hash_keys": false` 

- Management Gateway:

`"slave_options":{ "synchroniser_enabled": true }, "hash_keys": false` 

If certificates were used, please also set these additional configurations:

- MDCB

Set `"security.private_certificate_encoding_secret"` with the certificate encoding secret. This is required because MDCB would decode the certificate first before propagating it to worker gateways. The worker Gateways could encode the certificate with their own secret.

Please see [MDCB configuration options](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options/#securityprivate_certificate_encoding_secret) for reference

### Configuring the Synchroniser for Tyk Cloud

> Please contact us if you want to enable Synchroniser for your Tyk Cloud deployment.

Author: User would need to raise a support request, or self-service via the new `tykctl` tool. (https://tyktech.slack.com/archives/CJ0RERGV8/p1688032151004299?thread_ts=1688031567.395859&cid=CJ0RERGV8)

@letzya @Keithwachira Is configuration through `tykctl` tool ready for public use? If yes could you provide instruction specific to turning on synchroniser feature?

> Please contact us if you want to enable Synchroniser for your Tyk Cloud deployment.

Author: ```suggestion
Please [contact us](https://support.tyk.io/hc/en-gb) if you want to enable Synchroniser for your Tyk Cloud deployment.
```

> Please contact us if you want to enable Synchroniser for your Tyk Cloud deployment.

Author: updated

> Please contact us if you want to enable Synchroniser for your Tyk Cloud deployment.

Reviewer 3: Are you sure about this contact endpoint?

> Please contact us if you want to enable Synchroniser for your Tyk Cloud deployment.

Author: Is it not? I got it from the cloud console

### Troubleshooting

**Q: How do I know when synchronisation happened?**

> A: You could check the MDCB log message to know about when synchronisation started and finished:

Author: @sredxny Is there special steps worth mentioning here?

> A: You could check the MDCB log message to know about when synchronisation started and finished:

Reviewer: no really. It's  the same as the gateway and dashboard, and  will depend on the setup of the customer (they might print it in the terminal, a file, etc)

Every time that a key is updated or removed the control plane emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Considerations:
This introduces a single point of failure. When the MDCB or controller Gateway in the control plane fails then the worker Gateways are also affected.

{{< img src="/img/mdcb/synchroniser-before.gif" alt="Without Synchroniser" width="1000" >}}

**With Synchroniser**

If [Synchroniser]({{< ref "/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options#sync_worker_configenabled" >}}) is enabled, API keys, certificates and OAuth clients are synchronised and stored in the local redis server in advance. When one of those resources is created, modified or deleted, a signal will be emitted which allows the worker Gateways to respond accordingly. The transmitted information includes type of resource, action (create, update, delete), if hashed (in the case of keys), and resource ID so the changes are applied in the worker Gateways accordingly.

Considerations: 

> - Size of local Redis storage: If there are a lot of keys / resources to be synchronised this will increase the size of local Redis storage. The data stored in Redis, including keys, OAuth clients, and certificates, is passed to the Redis instance of each data plane. This is a characteristic of the synchronisation mechanism and occurs regardless of whether these elements are being actively used on a given data plane. It's important to understand that even if certain resources are not being utilized in a specific data plane, they are still stored and maintained in sync by the Multi Data Centre Bridge (MDCB). Therefore, if your system has a large volume of keys, OAuth clients, and certificates, this could increase the storage requirements and network traffic between your data planes. It's recommended to consider these factors when designing and scaling your system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Size of local Redis storage: If there are a lot of keys / resources to be synchronised this will increase the size of local Redis storage. The data stored in Redis, including keys, OAuth clients, and certificates, is passed to the Redis instance of each data plane. This is a characteristic of the synchronisation mechanism and occurs regardless of whether these elements are being actively used on a given data plane. Keep in mind that even if certain resources are not being utilized in a specific data plane, they are still stored and maintained in sync by the Multi Data Centre Bridge (MDCB). Therefore, if your system has a large volume of keys, OAuth clients, and certificates, this could increase the storage requirements and network traffic between your data planes. It's essential to consider these factors when designing and scaling your system.
```

> - Data residency: The synchronization of resources does not support the application of this feature to specific groups. Instead, all keys, oauth-clients, etc. will be propagated to all Redis instances in the worker Gateways, without any differentiation based on groups. This should be considered for those customers who have a single control plane but multiple clusters of worker Gateways connected. In this scenario all Redis instances in the Worker Gateways will receive all the keys. This has implications if you have data residency requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Data residency: The synchronization of resources does not support the application of this feature to specific groups. Instead, all keys, oauth-clients, etc. will be propagated to all Redis instances in the worker Gateways, without any differentiation based on groups. This should be considered for those customers who have a single control plane but multiple clusters of worker Gateways connected. In this scenario, all Redis instances in the Worker Gateways will receive all the keys. This aspect should be taken into account if you have specific data residency requirements.
```

---
date: 2023-06-21T11:02:59Z
title: Synchroniser feature with MDCB
tags: ["High Availability", "Synchroniser"]
description: "Synchroniser feature with MDCB"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "Ensure High Availability"
weight: 7
---

## Overview

In order to process API requests the worker Gateways need resources such as API keys, certificates, and OAuth clients. To ensure high availability these resources need to be synchronised in worker Gateways.

> Prior to Tyk Gateway v4.1, the API keys, certificates and OAuth clients required by worker Gateways were synchronised from the controller Gateway on-demand. With Gateway v4.1 and MDCB v2.0.3 we introduced proactive synchronisation of these resources to the worker Gateways when they start up.

Author: ```suggestion
Prior to Tyk Gateway v4.1, the API keys, certificates and OAuth clients required by worker Gateways were synchronised from the controller Gateway on-demand. With Gateway v4.1 and MDCB v2.0.3 we introduced a new configurable option that user may choose to have proactive synchronisation of these resources to the worker Gateways when they start up.
```

Every time that a key is updated or removed the control plane emits a signal to all the cluster gateways to update the key accordingly.

Considerations:
This introduces a single point of failure. When the MDCB or controller Gateway in the control plane fails then the worker Gateways are also affected.

{{< img src="/img/mdcb/synchroniser-before.gif" alt="Without Synchroniser" width="1000" >}}

**With Synchroniser**

If [Synchroniser]({{< ref "/tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options#sync_worker_configenabled" >}}) is enabled, API keys, certificates and OAuth clients are synchronised and stored in the local redis server in advance. When one of those resources is created, modified or deleted, a signal will be emitted which allows the worker Gateways to respond accordingly. The transmitted information includes type of resource, action (create, update, delete), if hashed (in the case of keys), and resource ID so the changes are applied in the worker Gateways accordingly.

Considerations: 
- Size of local Redis storage: If there are a lot of keys / resources to be synchronised this will increase the size of local Redis storage.

> - Data residency: Groups will be ignored when synchronising resources. All keys and oauth-clients etc. will be propagated to all Redis instances in the worker Gateways. This should be considered for those customers who have a single control plane but multiple clusters of worker Gateways connected. In this scenario all Redis instances in the Worker Gateways will receive all the keys. This has implications if you have data residency requirements.

Reviewer: what do you think about saying this like: 

_The synchronization of resources does not support the application of this feature to specific groups. Instead, all keys, oauth-clients, etc. will be propagated to all Redis instances in the worker Gateways, without any differentiation based on groups._

i think the sentence: groups will be ignored might be misunderstood?
